>> A cutting edge new
study by Dr. Joe Dispenza,
the connection
between meditation
and our body's capacity
to heal itself.
>> Our nervous system tends
to be the greatest pharmacy
in the world.
>> This is "Gaia News".
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Dr. Joe Dispenza
has spent a career,
as he puts it,
demystifying the mystical.
To that end, after leading
week-long meditation retreats
for years, he noticed miraculous
changes among the participants,
with some even claiming to have
longstanding afflictions cured,
seemingly by meditation alone.
So he decided to put that
claim to scientific testing
and partnered with the
University of California San
Diego biology department.
They tested advanced
meditators, novice meditators,
and a control group, and the
results have been fascinating.
Dr. Joe Dispenza on the results.
>> We started looking
closely at cellular function,
and we started measuring
thousands of cellular
metabolites that determine
whether a cell is in growth
and repair or a cell
is in breakdown.
At the end of seven days, I got
a call from our senior research
analyst, and he says we have
some really compelling things
to show you.
And we saw dramatic
changes in the biology
of advanced meditators.
So when we started looking
at the cellular function,
we noticed, along with the
change in the cellular function
for those people
that watch "Rewired,"
there was this arousal
that was taking place
in the person's brain and
in the nervous system.
And the arousal wasn't pain
and the arousal wasn't fear
and the arousal wasn't
anger or aggression, which
typically causes an arousal from
the sympathetic nervous system.
The person was
reporting an arousal,
and the only word they could
use was ecstasy or bliss.
They had made some
connection with something.
So when we captured the
blood of these people
and when they made some
type of connection,
we noticed some really,
really powerful effects
in their blood plasma.
>> But when they took the blood
samples of these meditators
into the lab, they were
in for a big surprise.
>> We created a pseudovirus,
and we put that virus
in the presence of the blood of
advanced meditators and looked
at it under an
electron microscope,
and we saw a resistance.
In other words, the virus
could not enter the cell.
And when we looked
at novice meditators,
we saw some of the
virus inside the cell
and some of the virus
outside of the cell.
And when we looked
at the controls,
all the controls were infected.
>> On a cellular level, how
could blood from advanced
meditators appear to
fight off disease?
>> OK, so we knew that there
was something in the blood
of advanced meditators that
caused this kind of immunity.
So we went through
several different assays
and biological tests
to actually isolate
a protein, a very
specific protein
that has profound effects
on the immune system.
In fact, when we
take that protein
and we put it in the infected
blood of the controls,
we noticed that all of the
infection in the controls
was reversed.
In other words, it
reversed the infection.
And so we've isolated
this protein.
>> How do these advanced
meditators create this
disease-fighting protein?
>> And the person who's having
that inward experience is not
having that experience from
anything in their environment.
Their eyes are closed.
There's music playing
in the background.
They're not eating.
They're not smelling.
They're not tasting.
They're not moving around
and experiencing and feeling.
They're disconnected from
their outer environment.
And somehow, when
they connect, there's
some type of order
that's taking place
in their nervous system
that causes a frequency.
And that frequency in
their nervous system
must be carrying information
that transcends their senses.
And there's only one place
where we can name that,
and that's the quantum field.
And so somehow,
there is some type
of connection
between the biology
of the brain and the body
and the physics of the field.
And somehow, we're
demystifying that process.
>> Dr. Joe Dispenza has
studied this subject for years.
What does he hope this
discovery will bring people
in the future?
>> Nothing changes in
our life until we change.
And giving people the
formula on how to do that,
it no longer becomes
about healing.
It really becomes about what
stands in the way between you
and becoming healed.
And so we're
demystifying that process
and turning it into a
solid practical application
so that people have
within their reach
all the tools to make measurable
changes in their life.
And this is a time in history
where it's not enough to know.
This is a time in
history to know how.
>> On Friday, January 14 at
10:30 Eastern US time, Dr.
Joe Dispenza and his scientific
team are holding a live stream
event open to the public to
provide all the data behind
this discovery and what they
say is the future of health
and healing.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News".
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]